Update - docker view logs (#1725)
SigNoz/signoz.io: docs/userguide/collecting_tomcat_access_and_gc_logs.md

> ---

Reviewer: @nityanandagohain, please create a folder named 

`send-logs-to-signoz` under [logs-management](https://github.com/SigNoz/signoz.io/tree/main/docs/logs-management) and put this docs inside that folder. We won't be using user guide for new docs.

@ankit01-oss can you please check the link and confirm if this seems okay.

title: Collecting Tomcat Access and Garbage Collector Logs

> id: collecting_tomcat_access_and_gc_logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: collect-tomcat-access-and-garbage-collector-logs
```

We are using `-` instead of `_` for all the new docs.

---
## Overview

> This guide provides detailed instructions on configuring the OpenTelemetry Collector to read read Tomcat Server Access and Garbage Collector logs and push them to SigNoz, enabling you to analyze them effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation provides detailed instructions about configuring the OpenTelemetry Collector to read Tomcat Server Access and Garbage Collector logs and push them to SigNoz, enabling you to analyze them effectively.
```

> 

Reviewer: We can add a H2 here and put the sample logs as H3 under this heading.

## Sample Log

Here is how the Tomcat Access logs and Garbage Collector logs look like:

> ## Sample Access Log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample Access Log
```

```
0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1 - - [18/Apr/2024:13:45:29 +0530] "GET /demo1/add?num1=1&num2=2 HTTP/1.1" 200 11
0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1 - - [18/Apr/2024:13:45:30 +0530] "GET /demo1/add?num1=2&num2=3 HTTP/1.1" 200 11
```

> ## Sample Garbage Collector log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample Garbage Collector log
```

```
[0.724s][info][gc] GC(3) Concurrent Mark Cycle 6.218ms
[0.772s][info][gc] GC(4) Pause Young (Prepare Mixed) (G1 Preventive Collection) 28M->8M(40M) 1.891ms
[591.215s][info][gc] GC(5) Pause Young (Mixed) (G1 Evacuation Pause) 10M->8M(40M) 8.173ms
```

> ## Collect Tomcat Access and Garbage Collector Logs in SigNoz Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collect Logs in SigNoz Cloud
```

### Prerequisite

- SigNoz [cloud](https://signoz.io/teams/) account

Sending logs to SigNoz cloud can be achieved by following these simple steps:
- Installing OpenTelemetry Collector
- Configuring filelog receiver

### Install OpenTelemetry Collector 

The OpenTelemetry collector provides a vendor-neutral way to collect, process, and export your telemetry data such as logs, metrics, and traces.

> You can install OpenTelemetry collector as an agent on your Virtual Machine by following this [guide](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install OpenTelemetry collector (OTel collector) as an agent by following this [guide](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/). 
```

`-Xloggc:<new_garbage_collection_logs_path>` 
:::

<!--- 
For parsing logs of different formats you will have to use operators, you can read more about operators [here](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs/#operators-for-parsing-and-manipulating-logs).
--->

### Update Pipelines Configuration

In the same `config.yaml` file, update the pipeline settings to include the new filelog receiver. This step is crucial for ensuring that the logs are correctly processed and sent to SigNoz.

```yaml {4}
service:
    ....
    logs:
        receivers: [otlp, filelog/access_logs, filelog/gc_logs]
        processors: [batch]
        exporters: [otlp]
```

Now restart the OTel collector so that new changes are applied. The steps to run the OTel collector can be found [here](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/)

### Verify Export

The logs will be exported to SigNoz and will be visible in SigNoz UI.

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
    <img src="/img/docs/tomcat_access_logs.png" alt="access logs visible in SigNoz"/>
    <figcaption><i>Sample tomcat access logs data shown in SigNoz Logs Explorer</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br> </br>
```

To make some space between the two images

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
    <img src="/img/docs/tomcat_gc_logs.png" alt="garbage logs visible in SigNoz"/>
    <figcaption><i>Sample tomcat garbage collector logs data shown in SigNoz Logs Explorer</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> ## Collecting Tomcat Access and Garbage Collector Logs in self-hosted SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collect logs in self-hosted SigNoz
```

- SigNoz running on the same host
- SigNoz running on different host

### Running on the same host

If your self-hosted SigNoz is running on the same host, then you can follow these steps to collect your application logs.

#### Install SigNoz

You can install Self-Hosted SigNoz using the instructions [here](https://signoz.io/docs/install/docker/).

#### Modify Docker Compose file

In your self-hosted SigNoz setup, locate and edit the `docker-compose.yaml` file found in the `deploy/docker/clickhouse-setup` directory. You'll need to mount the log file of your application to the `tmp` directory of SigNoz OTel collector. 
  ```yaml {6}
    ...
    otel-collector:
    image: signoz/signoz-otel-collector:0.88.11
    command: ["--config=/etc/otel-collector-config.yaml"]
    volumes:
      - ~/<access_logs_path>/:/<access_logs_path>/
      - ~/<garbage_collector_logs_path>/:/<garbage_collector_logs_path>/
    ....
  ```

Replace `<access_logs_path>` , `<garbage_collector_logs_path>` with the path where your access log and garbage collector log files are present. Please ensure that the file path is correctly specified.
  
#### Add Filelog receiver

> Add the filelog reciever to `otel-collector-config.yaml` which is present inside `deploy/docker/clickhouse-setup` directory in your self-hosted SigNoz setup. The configuratoin below tells the collector where to find your log file and how to start processing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the filelog reciever to `otel-collector-config.yaml` which is present inside `deploy/docker/clickhouse-setup` directory in your self-hosted SigNoz setup. The configuration below tells the collector where to find your log file and how to start processing it.
```

--->

For more fields that are available for filelog receiver please check [this link](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

#### Update Pipeline configuration

Modify the pipeline inside `otel-collector-config.yaml` to include the filelog receiver. This step is crucial for ensuring that the logs are correctly processed and sent to SigNoz.

  ```yaml {4}
  service:
      ....
      logs:
          receivers: [otlp, filelog/access_logs, filelog/gc_logs]
          processors: [batch]
          exporters: [clickhouselogsexporter]
  ```

Now, restart the OTel collector so that new changes are applied. You can find instructions to run OTel collector [here](https://signoz.io/docs/install/docker/)

#### Verify Export

The logs will be exported to SigNoz UI if there are no errors.

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
    <img src="/img/docs/tomcat_access_logs.png" alt="Access logs visible in SigNoz"/>
    <figcaption><i>Sample tomcat access logs data shown in SigNoz Logs Explorer</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br> </br>
```

To make some space between the two images.
